New SDK IA (Node) - Usage Examples (#705)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/node/examples/access-a-linked-mongodb-cluster.txt

.. _node-access-a-linked-mongodb-cluster:
.. _node-mongodb-data-access:
.. _node-mongodb-remote-access:

===============================
Access a Linked MongoDB Cluster
===============================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. note:: Example Dataset

   The examples on this page use a MongoDB collection that describes inventory
   in a chain of plant stores. For more information on the collection schema and
   document contents, see :ref:`Example Data <node-mongodb-example-dataset>`.

.. _node-mongodb-connect:

Connect to a Linked Cluster
---------------------------

To access a linked cluster from your client application, pass the cluster name
to :js-sdk:`User.mongoClient() <Realm.User.html#mongoClient>`. This returns a
MongoDB service interface that you can use to access databases and collections
in the cluster.

.. tabs-realm-languages::
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript
      
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/code/start/mongodb.codeblock.plants-collection-handle.js
         :language: javascript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
      

>       .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/code/start/mongodb.codeblock.plants-collection-handle.ts

Reviewer: Not part of this PR, but does the Typescript formatter suggest the additional linebreaks not present in the Javascript version? It could be less jarring to keep the formatting consistent when possible.

         :language: typescript

Read Operations
---------------

.. _node-find-a-single-document:
.. _node-mongodb-findOne:

Find a Single Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To find a single document, pass a query filter that matches the document to
:js-sdk:`collection.findOne() <Realm.MongoDBCollection.html#findOne>`. If you do
not pass a query filter, ``findOne()`` matches the first document it finds in
the collection.

> The following snippet finds the document that describes venus flytraps in the

Reviewer: Just to clarify that it's a type of plant for anyone that might not have heard of them.

```suggestion
The following snippet finds the document that describes venus flytrap plants in the
```

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
      
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/code/start/mongodb.codeblock.find-a-single-document-result.ts
         :language: typescript

.. _node-find-multiple-documents:
.. _node-mongodb-findMany:

Find Multiple Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To find multiple documents, pass a query filter that matches the documents to
:js-sdk:`collection.find() <Realm.MongoDBCollection.html#find>`. If you do not
pass a query filter, ``find()`` matches all documents in the collection.

The following snippet finds all documents that describe perennial plants in the
:ref:`collection of documents that describe plants for sale in a group of stores
<node-mongodb-example-dataset>`:

.. tabs-realm-languages::
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript
      
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/code/start/mongodb.codeblock.find-multiple-documents.js
         :language: javascript

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
      
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/code/start/mongodb.codeblock.find-multiple-documents.ts
         :language: typescript

Running this snippet produces output resembling the following:

> .. tabs-realm-languages::

Reviewer: Nitpick: while not related to this PR, I wonder if the output code blocks would be easier to read without the copy widget (`:copyable: false`)

:ref:`collection of documents that describe plants for sale in a group of stores
<node-mongodb-example-dataset>`:

.. tabs-realm-languages::
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript
      
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/code/start/mongodb.codeblock.insert-multiple-documents.js
         :language: javascript

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
      
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/code/start/mongodb.codeblock.insert-multiple-documents.ts
         :language: typescript

Running this snippet produces output resembling the following:

.. tabs-realm-languages::
   :hidden: true
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript
      
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/code/start/mongodb.codeblock.insert-multiple-documents-result.js
         :language: javascript

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
      
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/code/start/mongodb.codeblock.insert-multiple-documents-result.ts
         :language: typescript

.. _node-update-a-single-document:
.. _node-mongodb-updateOne:

Update a Single Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To update a single document, pass a query filter that matches the document and

> an update description to :js-sdk:`collection.updateOne()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an update document to :js-sdk:`collection.updateOne()
```
